PAYARA-2598 Documentation for Payara Realms Identity Stores (#666)
payara/Payara-Server-Documentation: documentation/payara-server/public-api/realm-identitystores/file-identity-store-definition.adoc

[[file-identity-store]]
= File Identity Store

_Since Payara Server 5.194_

The Payara API provides a `@FileIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation that creates an identity store to authenticate the users using the file realm.

[[usage]]
== Usage

The File realm identity store is defined through the `@FileIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation.

> Specifying this in a valid place as defined by the Jakarta EE Security API will create the mechanism.

Reviewer: Possibly link to docs?

Often this may mean that any class is a valid position.

> If file realm not found with defined name then an new file realm created otherwise existing file realm instance is used to authenticate the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a file realm is not found with the defined name then an new file realm is created, otherwise the existing file realm instance is used to authenticate the users.
```

[[usage-example]]
=== Example

The following code sample illustrates how to configure file realm identity store:

[source, java]
----
@ApplicationScoped
@ApplicationPath("/rest")
@DeclareRoles({ "a", "b" })
@BasicAuthenticationMechanismDefinition(realmName = "file-realm")
@FileIdentityStoreDefinition("file-realm")
public class MyRestApp extends Application {
}
----

[[configuration]]
== Configuration

The file realm identity store can be configured with both `@FileIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation attributes 

> and MicroProfile Config properties. The annotation and mp config properties has several configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and MicroProfile Config properties. The annotation and MicroProfile Config properties have several configuration options.
```

They are detailed as shown below.

|===
| Option | MP Config property | Description | Default | Required

| `value`
|
| The name of realm.
| `file`
|

| `file`
| `payara.security.file`

> | The location of file to store user credentials locally. If no file name defined then by realm name is used as file name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| The location of file to store user credentials locally. If no file name is defined then realm name is used as the file name.
```

| Realm Name
|

| `assignGroups`
| `payara.security.file.assignGroups`
| The users are assigned membership to these groups for the purposes of authorization decisions.
|
|

| `jaasContext`
| `payara.security.file.jaasContext`
| The JAAS Context of File realm.
| `fileRealm`
|

|===

> *Note :* If both annotation attribute and mp config property defined for same option 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note :* If both an annotation attribute and a MicroProfile Config property are defined for the same option 
```

> then MicroProfile Config property value always take precedence over `@FileIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
then the MicroProfile Config property value always take precedence over the `@FileIdentityStoreDefinition` annotation value.
```
